# Spotify Dataset (1920-2020)

We have more than 160k songs from the Spotify Web API from year 1920-2020. The dataset lists features like danceability, acousticness, loudness etc. for different songs along with their release year and popularity.

Dataset : We have more than 160k songs from the Spotify Web API from year 1920-2020. The dataset lists features like danceability, acousticness, loudness etc. for different songs along with their release year and popularity.

Business Problem : Since the feature trends for songs are changing overtime, we have tried analysing these trends. We predict popularity for the new songs based on these feature importances. It would help to figure out how a song would do when it hits the market and help musicians figure out the what kind of songs people stream most. Further, it can also be used to make content based recommender systems where songs can be clustered according to patterns in their audio features.

Machine Learning Problem : We have popularity range from 1-100. We will bin it into 10 categories and solve it as a multi-class classification problem. Then we cluster songs using clustering techniques to figure out the categories that have similar characteristics and can be used for recommendation systems.

This dataset has been provided by Kaggle and can be downloaded from https://www.kaggle.com/yamaerenay/spotify-dataset-19212020-160k-tracks. It has following features:

id (Id of track generated by Spotify)
acousticness (Ranges from 0 to 1)
danceability (Ranges from 0 to 1)
energy (Ranges from 0 to 1)
duration_ms (Integer typically ranging from 200k to 300k)
instrumentalness (Ranges from 0 to 1)
valence (Ranges from 0 to 1)
popularity (Ranges from 0 to 100)
tempo (Float typically ranging from 50 to 150)
liveness (Ranges from 0 to 1)
loudness (Float typically ranging from -60 to 0)
speechiness (Ranges from 0 to 1)
year (Ranges from 1921 to 2020)
mode (0 = Minor, 1 = Major)
explicit (0 = No explicit content, 1 = Explicit content)
key (All keys on octave encoded as values ranging from 0 to 11, starting on C as 0, C# as 1 and so on…)
artists (List of artists mentioned)
release_date (Date of release mostly in yyyy-mm-dd format, however precision of date may vary)
name (Name of the song)
